This directory contains some sample configuration for a highly available
Journal.  

Note: The bigdata scripts bundled in this directory are designed to be run
from the root directory of the SVN checkout of the bigdata code base. This
is used for developers.  The installation is done using the top-level ant
build file and the "ant deploy-artifact" target.

The basic procedure is:

0. The nodes MUST have synchronized clocks, both for logging and to ensure
   that the transaction services have closely correlated clocks for assigning
   timestamps.  Make sure that ntp or a similar service is running to synchronize
   the clocks.

1. Edit the various configuration files.  You will have to specify the
   replicationFactor for the HAJournal in the HAJournal.config file.  Make
   sure to check all the configuration properties.

2. Make sure that zookeeper is up and running with a consistent configuration
   and that it is logging somewhere where you can find the log later.  A good
   approach is to use nohup so the console output will wind up in the directory
   from which you start zookeeper.  Do not put zookeeper in the background or
   it can block once the console buffer is full.  For a highly available zk
   configuration, you need to be running at least 3 zk nodes.  Consult the zk
   documentation for more information.

3. Start the ClassServer on each machine.  This will let the service registrar
   find the downloadable jars on that machine.

4. Start the service registrar on at least one machine (as configured by
   the locators).  A highly available jini/river service will run multiple
   service registrar and provide either multiple unicast locators or support
   multicast discovery of the service registrar.  Consult the jini/river
   documentation for more information.
   
5. Start the HAJournalServer on [k] machines, where [k] is the replication
   factor you specified in the HAJournal.config file.  The quorum should
   meet once (k+1)/2 services join (majority rule).  At this point one of
   the nodes will be elected as the leader.  You can write on that node
   (e.g., using SPARQL UPDATE).  You can read on any node that is joined
   with the met quorum.
   
   Note: The default log4j configuration writes onto a file named 
   "HAJournalServer.log" -- that is where you need to look for errors
   and any other information about the running HAJournalServer process.

A brief description of the files in this directory follows:

HAJournal.env - A shell script containing sample configuration values. This
                is sourced by the various scripts.  You need to review all
                of these settings.

HAJournal.config - A sample configuration file for the HAJournalServer. You
                   need to review the settings in this file as well.

classServer.sh - A shell script that will start the jini class server (for
                 downloadable code).
                 
lookupStarter.sh - A shell script that will start the jini service registrar.

HAJournalServer.sh - A shell script that will start the HAJournalServer. 

                     The server process will create a directory in which it 
                     logs the replicated writes in case other services need to 
                     resynchronize.  This directory is named "HALog" by default
                     and may be located on a normal disk.  The ha-log files in
                     that directory are pure append files and do not need to be
                     on a fast disk.  The ha-log files will be purged at any
                     commit point when the quorum is fully met.  These HALog files
                     can get large if you are doing a long running update.

log4jHA.properties - A default log4j configuration file for use by the bigdata
                     services.
				   
logging.properties - A default Java logging configuration.  This may be used
					 to control the log levels for jini/river components inside
					 of the bigdata services. Those components use java logging
					 rather than log4j.

policy.all - A default java permissions file.  This file grants ALL permissions.
			 You may specify a more rigorous security policy.
